README.md, before:

This is an implementation of integrating the greedy dynamic power
(GDP) into the HotSniper simulator. By running this program, one can
analyze the performance/power/thermal behavior of a multi/many-core
system running multi-threaded benchmarks like the PARSEC benchmark,
with optimized active core distributions and power budgets provided by
GDP dynamically at runtime.

The unintegrated GDP code is also available [here](https://wanghaiuestc.github.io),
which can be used in other simulators or in your own performance-thermal simulation flow.

See [here](https://wanghaiuestc.github.io) for more opensource softwares from my group. 

# Greedy Dynamic Power (GDP)

Greedy dynamic power (GDP) is a dynamic power budgeting method which
provides a high power budget for the multi/many-core systems. It
contains an optimized active core mapping strategy as well as a
transient temperature-aware power budget computing methodology. 

Here, the GDP code is written in Python 3. It can
be easily integrated into a performance-thermal simulator or one's own
simulation tool chain. 

To illustrate how to integrate GDP into a performance-thermal simulator,
we provide this HotSniper 7 simulator integrated with GDP, which is ready-to-run.

To generate GDP thermal matrices of your own chip, please use [HotSpot with Thermal Model Extraction](https://wanghaiuestc.github.io). 

## Publication

### GDP: A Greedy Based Dynamic Power Budgeting Method for Multi/Many-Core Systems in Dark Silicon

For more details, please read our GDP paper published in TC 2019.
Please also cite this paper if the GDP code is useful.

> H. Wang, D. Tang, M. Zhang, et al., **"[GDP: A Greedy Based Dynamic
> Power Budgeting Method for Multi/Many-Core Systems in Dark
> Silicon](https://wanghaiuestc.github.io/papers/TC_gdp_author_copy.pdf)."** *IEEE Transactions on Computers*, vol. 68, no. 4, April
> 2019, pp. 526-541.

[IEEE Xplore](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/8493277) 

## Introduction of the GDP code
The main GDP code is in ```gdp.py```. When integrated with HotSniper
(as in this implementation), ```gdp.py``` is located at ```common/scheduler/policies/gdp.py```.

It mainly contains two functions: ```gdp_map```, which finds the GDP
optimized active core map, and ```gdp_power```, which computes the GDP
power budget for a given active core map.

To integrate GDP with your own performance-thermal simulation tool
chain (other than HotSniper), simply write a connection python script to handle the input and
output for GDP and add ```import gdp``` to use the GDP functions. 
Take ```common/scheduler/policies/execute_gdp_mapping.py``` and ```common/scheduler/policies/execute_gdp_power.py``` as examples, which
are such scripts written specially for the HotSniper simulator. 

## How to install the HotSniper with GDP

In this repository, GDP is integrated into the HotSniper 7 simulator. The installation of
HotSniper with GDP is exactly the same as the original HotSniper, so
please refer to [HotSniper](https://github.com/anujpathania/HotSniper)
(or see the local ```README_HOTSNIPER.md```)
for the installation steps.

When creating the Docker container, users in China may want to modify the last two lines of ```docker/Dockerfile-ubuntu-16.04``` for better network connection. 


## How to run the HotSniper with GDP

For a fresh install, you can directly run HotSniper with GDP using
the default settings as (run the following inside container):
```sh
cd simulationcontrol
PYTHONIOENCODING="UTF-8" python3 run.py
```

To run with modified settings, use the following steps: 

1. Set the HotSniper related configurations by following the
   [HotSniper Configuration
   Checklist](https://github.com/anujpathania/HotSniper#configuration-checklist).
   
2. Set the GDP related configurations:
   - In ```config/base.cfg```:
	 - Set ```scheduler/open/logic``` to ```gdp``` to use GDP as
       the active core mapping method.
	 - Set ```scheduler/open/dvfs``` to ```gdp``` to use GDP to
       compute the power budget dynamically for each DVFS cycle. 
	 - Set ```scheduler/open/gdp_mode``` to ```steady``` or ```transient```.
	 
	 Although we recommend setting both the active core mapping
   method and the power budget computing method as GDP, one can
   actually set them independently. For example, one is free to use ```first_unused``` as the active
   core mapping method, and use GDP only for the power budget
   computing.
   
3. If you want to change the multi-core system to be simulated, set
   the floorplan, thermal model, and core number settings at several
   locations (take the provided 100-core manycore system with
   floorplan ```10x10_manycore.flp``` as an example): 
   - In ```config/base.cfg```: 
	 - Set ```periodic_thermal/floorplan``` to ```../benchmarks/10x10_manycore.flp```.
	 - Set ```periodic_thermal/thermal_model``` to ```../benchmarks/10x10_eigendata.bin```.
	 - Set ```general/total_cores``` to ```100```.
   - In ```simulationcontrol/config.py```: 
	 - Set ```NUMBER_CORES``` to ```100```.
	 
4. Run HotSniper (run the following inside container):
```sh
cd simulationcontrol
PYTHONIOENCODING="UTF-8" python3 run.py
```

HotSniper with GDP can run directly with the provided two many-core
systems, using the PARSEC benchmarks: 

1. 8x8\_manycore: floorplan (```benchmarks/8x8_manycore.flp```)
2. 10x10\_manycore: floorplan (```benchmarks/10x10_manycore.flp```)

Other than these, to generate GDP thermal matrices of your own chip, please use [HotSpot with Thermal Model Extraction](https://wanghaiuestc.github.io).

## Code Acknowledgements

  HotSniper: <https://github.com/anujpathania/HotSniper>
  
  Sniper: <http://snipersim.org>
  
  McPat: https://www.hpl.hp.com/research/mcpat/
  
  HotSpot: <http://lava.cs.virginia.edu/HotSpot/>
  
  MatEx: http://ces.itec.kit.edu/846.php
  
  thermallib: https://github.com/ma-rapp/thermallib

Commit message:

update readme with manual scheduler

README.md, after:

This is an implementation of integrating the greedy dynamic power
(GDP) into the HotSniper simulator. By running this program, one can
analyze the performance/power/thermal behavior of a multi/many-core
system running multi-threaded benchmarks like the PARSEC benchmark,
with optimized active core distributions and power budgets provided by
GDP dynamically at runtime.

The unintegrated GDP code is also available [here](https://wanghaiuestc.github.io),
which can be used in other simulators or in your own performance-thermal simulation flow.

See [here](https://wanghaiuestc.github.io) for more opensource softwares from my group. 

# Greedy Dynamic Power (GDP)

Greedy dynamic power (GDP) is a dynamic power budgeting method which
provides a high power budget for the multi/many-core systems. It
contains an optimized active core mapping strategy as well as a
transient temperature-aware power budget computing methodology. 

Here, the GDP code is written in Python 3. It can
be easily integrated into a performance-thermal simulator or one's own
simulation tool chain. 

To illustrate how to integrate GDP into a performance-thermal simulator,
we provide this HotSniper 7 simulator integrated with GDP, which is ready-to-run.

To generate GDP thermal matrices of your own chip, please use [HotSpot with Thermal Model Extraction](https://wanghaiuestc.github.io). 

## Publication

### GDP: A Greedy Based Dynamic Power Budgeting Method for Multi/Many-Core Systems in Dark Silicon

For more details, please read our GDP paper published in TC 2019.
Please also cite this paper if the GDP code is useful.

> H. Wang, D. Tang, M. Zhang, et al., **"[GDP: A Greedy Based Dynamic
> Power Budgeting Method for Multi/Many-Core Systems in Dark
> Silicon](https://wanghaiuestc.github.io/papers/TC_gdp_author_copy.pdf)."** *IEEE Transactions on Computers*, vol. 68, no. 4, April
> 2019, pp. 526-541.

[IEEE Xplore](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/8493277) 

## Introduction of the GDP code
The main GDP code is in ```gdp.py```. When integrated with HotSniper
(as in this implementation), ```gdp.py``` is located at ```common/scheduler/policies/gdp.py```.

It mainly contains two functions: ```gdp_map```, which finds the GDP
optimized active core map, and ```gdp_power```, which computes the GDP
power budget for a given active core map.

To integrate GDP with your own performance-thermal simulation tool
chain (other than HotSniper), simply write a connection python script to handle the input and
output for GDP and add ```import gdp``` to use the GDP functions. 
Take ```common/scheduler/policies/execute_gdp_mapping.py``` and ```common/scheduler/policies/execute_gdp_power.py``` as examples, which
are such scripts written specially for the HotSniper simulator. 

## How to install the HotSniper with GDP

In this repository, GDP is integrated into the HotSniper 7 simulator. The installation of
HotSniper with GDP is exactly the same as the original HotSniper, so
please refer to [HotSniper](https://github.com/anujpathania/HotSniper)
(or see the local ```README_HOTSNIPER.md```)
for the installation steps.

When creating the Docker container, users in China may want to modify the last two lines of ```docker/Dockerfile-ubuntu-16.04``` for better network connection. 


## How to run the HotSniper with GDP

For a fresh install, you can directly run HotSniper with GDP using
the default settings as (run the following inside container):
```sh
cd simulationcontrol
PYTHONIOENCODING="UTF-8" python3 run.py
```

To run with modified settings, use the following steps: 

1. Set the HotSniper related configurations by following the
   [HotSniper Configuration
   Checklist](https://github.com/anujpathania/HotSniper#configuration-checklist).
   
2. Set the GDP related configurations:
   - In ```config/base.cfg```:
	 - Set ```scheduler/open/logic``` to ```gdp``` to use GDP as
       the active core mapping method.
	 - Set ```scheduler/open/dvfs``` to ```gdp``` to use GDP to
       compute the power budget dynamically for each DVFS cycle. 
	 - Set ```scheduler/open/gdp_mode``` to ```steady``` or ```transient```.

	 Although we recommend setting both the active core mapping
   method and the power budget computing method as GDP, one can
   actually set them independently. For example, one is free to use ```first_unused``` as the active
   core mapping method, and use GDP only for the power budget
   computing.
   
3. If you want to change the multi-core system to be simulated, set
   the floorplan, thermal model, and core number settings at several
   locations (take the provided 100-core manycore system with
   floorplan ```10x10_manycore.flp``` as an example): 
   - In ```config/base.cfg```: 
	 - Set ```periodic_thermal/floorplan``` to ```../benchmarks/10x10_manycore.flp```.
	 - Set ```periodic_thermal/thermal_model``` to ```../benchmarks/10x10_eigendata.bin```.
	 - Set ```general/total_cores``` to ```100```.
   - In ```simulationcontrol/config.py```: 
	 - Set ```NUMBER_CORES``` to ```100```.
	 
4. Run HotSniper (run the following inside container):
```sh
cd simulationcontrol
PYTHONIOENCODING="UTF-8" python3 run.py
```

HotSniper with GDP can run directly with the provided two many-core
systems, using the PARSEC benchmarks: 

1. 8x8\_manycore: floorplan (```benchmarks/8x8_manycore.flp```)
2. 10x10\_manycore: floorplan (```benchmarks/10x10_manycore.flp```)

Other than these, to generate GDP thermal matrices of your own chip, please use [HotSpot with Thermal Model Extraction](https://wanghaiuestc.github.io).

## Additional Features

In addition to the integration of GDP, this version of HotSniper has the following additional new features.

### Manual Scheduler

We provide a new scheduler called manual. It schedules threads to and ONLY to the cores in the order provided by the user, with the following features:

1. User can provide repeated cores in the order list, like 5, 3, 4, 3, 5.
2. The order list element number is not restricted by the thread number. For example, for a 16-threaded application, it is okey to provided a core order list of 3 elements.
3. Multiple threads on the same core will run in round-robin (RR), with time slices set by the user.

To enable and configure the manual scheduler, in ```config/base.cfg```:

1. Change ```scheduler/type``` to ```manual```. Note by doing this, you lost the GDP features (and all schedulers implemented under the "open scheduler" like TSP, first unused, etc.) since GDP is effective when ```scheduler/type``` set as ```open```.

2. Under ```scheduler/manual```
  - Set ```quantum``` for your desired round-robin time slice length.
  - Set ```order``` for your desired core order to be scheduled on, end with -1, like 5,2,4,3,2,6,2,5,-1
  
For example, if we run a 16-threaded application with core order set as "5,2,4,3,2,6,2,5,-1", the 16 threads will be assigned to cores as 5,2,4,3,2,6,2,5,5,2,4,3,2,6,2,5. Core 5 will have 4 threads running in round-robin with time slice length set in ```quantum```.


## Code Acknowledgements

  HotSniper: <https://github.com/anujpathania/HotSniper>
  
  Sniper: <http://snipersim.org>
  
  McPat: https://www.hpl.hp.com/research/mcpat/
  
  HotSpot: <http://lava.cs.virginia.edu/HotSpot/>
  
  MatEx: http://ces.itec.kit.edu/846.php
  
  thermallib: https://github.com/ma-rapp/thermallib
